Docs/drawer customization (#410)
SenseNet/sensenet.github.io: _docs/admin-ui/drawer-customization-in-general.md

---
title: "Drawer customization in general"
source_url: "https://github.com/SenseNet/sensenet.github.io/blob/master/_docs/admin-ui/drawer-customization-in-general.md"
category: Admin UI
tags: [admin ui, customization, drawer, content, search]
description: This article gives a brief overview about the customization of the Drawer (the left side menu) on the Admin UI.
---

# Drawer (aka. left side menu)

The Drawer component is the left side navigation menu. It lets you access the [personal settings](/docs/admin-ui/personal-settings), [setup](/docs/admin-ui/setup), [version-info](/docs/admin-ui/version-info) and more other menupoints.

## Customization

> You can customize the drawer with in the [personal settings](/docs/admin-ui/personal-settings). You can set drawer options for multiple devices. For example mobile, tablet, desktop and in general for default. There are 3 main options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can customize the drawer within the [personal settings](/docs/admin-ui/personal-settings). You can set drawer options for multiple devices. For example mobile, tablet, desktop and in general for default. There are 3 main options:
```

1. [enabled](#enabled) - boolean value (it can be `true` or `false`)
2. [type](#type) - string value (`"mini-variant"`, `"permanent"`, `"temporary"`)
3. [items](#items) - array of DrawerItem (this is a complex type, look for examples below)

### Enabled

This it the simplest setting that can enable or disable the drawer itself. 
> Don't worry if you disabled the drawer and can't find personal settings. You can access it from the [Command palette](/docs/admin-ui/command-palette) with typing in _personal settings_ and pressing enter.

Example setting:

```json
{
  "default": {
    "drawer": {
      "enabled": false
    }
  }
}
```

### Type

There are 3 possible values for choosing the type of the drawer:

> **mini-variant** - This can be opened and closed as it is shown above. _This is currently the default setting for desktop mode_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**mini-variant** - This can be opened and closed as it is shown below. _This is currently the default setting for desktop mode_
```

![drawer mini-variant](/img/drawer-mini-variant.png "Drawer mini-variant"){:height="600px"}

**permanent** - In this mode the drawer is always open.

![drawer permanent](/img/drawer-permanent.png "Drawer permanent"){:height="600px"}

**temporary** - In this mode there is no sidebar only a hamburger menu in the top left corner. _This is currently the default setting for mobile mode_

![drawer temporary](/img/drawer-temporary.gif "Drawer temporary")

### Items

Every drawer item has 3 properties, `settings`, `itemType`, `permissions`.

> The `settings` property changes for item types, there are items that doesn't have settings at all.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `settings` property changes for item types, there are items that don't have settings at all.
```

+ It is a contradiction - with the previous sentence. 
"Every drawer item has 3 properties" <--> "there are items that doesn't have settings at all"

---
title: "Drawer customization in general"
source_url: "https://github.com/SenseNet/sensenet.github.io/blob/master/_docs/admin-ui/drawer-customization-in-general.md"
category: Admin UI
tags: [admin ui, customization, drawer, content, search]
description: This article gives a brief overview about the customization of the Drawer (the left side menu) on the Admin UI.
---

# Drawer (aka. left side menu)

> The Drawer component is the left side navigation menu. It lets you access the [personal settings](/docs/admin-ui/personal-settings), [setup](/docs/admin-ui/setup), [version-info](/docs/admin-ui/version-info) and more menupoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Drawer component is the left side navigation menu. It lets you access the [personal settings](/docs/admin-ui/personal-settings), [setup](/docs/admin-ui/setup), [version-info](/docs/admin-ui/version-info) and more other menupoints.
```

## Customization

> You can customize the drawer in the [personal settings](/docs/admin-ui/personal-settings). There are 3 options that you can pass to the drawer settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can customize the drawer with the [personal settings](/docs/admin-ui/personal-settings). There are 3 main options that you can pass to the drawer settings.
```

1. enabled - boolean value (it can be `true` or `false`)
2. type - string value (`"mini-variant"`, `"permanent"`, `"temporary"`)
3. items - array of DrawerItem (this is a complex type, look for examples below)

### Enabled

> This it the simplest setting of the drawer. You can enable or disable it. Don't worry if you disabled the drawer and can't find personal settings. You can access it from [Command palette](/docs/admin-ui/command-palette), just type in personal settings and press enter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This it the simplest setting that can enable or disable the drawer itself. Don't worry if you disabled the drawer and can't find personal settings. You can access it from the [Command palette](/docs/admin-ui/command-palette) with typing in *personal settings* and pressing enter.
```

Example setting:

```json
{
  "default": {
    "drawer": {
      "enabled": false
    }
  }
}
```

### Type

> There are 3 possible values for type:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are 3 possible values for choosing the type of the drawer:
```

**mini-variant** - This can be opened and closed as it is shown above. _This is currently the default setting for desktop mode_

![drawer mini-variant](/img/drawer-mini-variant.png "Drawer mini-variant"){:height="600px"}

> **permanent** - In this mode the drawer is always opened.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**permanent** - In this mode the drawer is always open.
```
